# Project-525
12 MW Bhandardara Hydro Project in Maharashtra by DLHPPL.

Scale of the project activity Small Scale

Project participants Dodson–Lindblom Hydro Power Private Limited -
(DLHPPL) (Project Proponent)

Host Party India

Applied methodologies and standardized
baselines
Applied Baseline Methodology:
AMS-I.D : “Grid connected renewable electricity
generation”, version 18

Standardized Methodology: Not Applicable.
Sectoral scopes 01 Energy industries
(Renewable/Non-Renewable Sources)

Estimated amount of total GHG emission
reductions
37,155 CoUs (i.e. 37,155 tCO2e which is an estimated
value per year)
___________
The proposed project tile under UCR is “12 MW Bhandardara Hydro Project in Maharashtra by
DLHPPL.”, which is a grid connected Hydro Electric Power project located in Village Bhandardara,
Tehsil Akola, District Ahmednagar, State Maharashtra, Country India. The project is an operational
activity with continuous reduction of GHG, currently being applied under “Universal Carbon
Registry” (UCR).

Purpose of the project activity:
The proposed project activity is promoted by Dodson–Lindblom Hydro Power Private Limited
(herein after called as project proponent ‘PP’). The proposed project activity is installation and
operation of one Francis Hydro Turbine Generators having capacity of 12 MW in District -
Ahmednagar, Maharashtra state of India. The main purpose of the project activity is to generate
electricity from the potential energy in the water released from Bhandardara dam and export the net
electricity to the grid. This is an existing operational project.

It is one of the oldest masonry gravity dams in Maharashtra state whose construction started in 1910
and was completed in 1926. The Bhandardara dam (Wilson dam) is operated and maintained by
Government of Maharashtra Irrigation Department (GOMID), renamed as Government of
Maharashtra Water Resources Department, hereinafter referred to as GOMID/GOMWRD. There are
two hydro power plants near Bhandardara dam.

The project activity is one of several water management projects in the upper Pravara River basin. The
electricity generation from project is dependent on irrigation and domestic water releases from the
Bhandardara reservoir. The catchment area for Bhandardara dam is 121.7 square kilometers. The gross
storage of reservoir is 318 million cubic meters (MCM) and storage for power is 249 MCM. The water
released from the Bhandardara reservoir is used for irrigation purpose is conducted to a turbine in the
power plant and jetted on to the turbine. This action rotates the turbine, which in turn causes the rotation
of the alternator connected to the turbine, thereby producing electricity. The generated power is stepped
up to 132 KV and exported to MSTCL grid, which is part of regional grid. The maximum generation
possible at the dam site is 14.84 MW as dictated by the topological conditions at site. The generated
electricity from the project activity after auxiliary consumption is exported to MSETCL grid.
Hence, project activity is displacing the estimated annual net electricity generation i.e., 41,284.01
MWh from the Indian grid system, which otherwise would have been generated by the operation of
fossil fuel-based grid-connected power plants. The estimated annual CO2e emission reductions by
the project activity are expected to be 37,155 tCO2e.

The estimated annual average and the total CO2e emission reductions by the project activity is
expected to be 37,155 tCO2e, whereas actual emission reduction achieved during the first CoU period
shall be submitted as a part of first monitoring and verification.

Since the project activity will generate electricity through hydro energy, a clean renewable energy
source it will not cause any negative impact on the environment and thereby contributes to climate
change mitigation efforts.
___________
PRIOR HISTORY:

CDM Project: 0430 12 MW hydropower plant in Bhandardara in Maharashtra, India

Crediting Period (requested for renewal):	27 Jul 15 - 26 Jul 22

Other crediting period(s): 

27 Jul 01 - 26 Jul 08 

27 Jul 08 - 26 Jul 15
__________
Requests for Issuance
and related documentation	
________________
Monitoring report: 27 Jul 2015 - 31 Oct 2016 

Issuance request state: Issued

CERs requested from 01 Jan 2013 until 31 December 2020: 42996

Serial Range: Block start: IN-5-231595409-2-2-0-430      Block end: IN-5-231638404-2-2-0-430
____________
Monitoring report: 01 Nov 2016 - 31 Dec 2017 

Issuance request state: Issued

CERs requested from 01 Jan 2013 until 31 December 2020: 39849

Serial Range: Block start: IN-5-248964574-2-2-0-430      Block end: IN-5-249004422-2-2-0-430
_____________
Monitoring report: 01 Jan 2018 - 31 Mar 2019

Issuance request state: Issued

CERs requested from 01 Jan 2013 until 31 December 2020: 54024

Serial Range: Block start: IN-5-272126785-2-2-0-430      Block end: IN-5-272180808-2-2-0-430
_____________
Monitoring report: 01 Apr 2019 - 31 Dec 2020

Issuance request state: Issued

CERs requested from 01 Jan 2013 until 31 December 2020: 48934

Serial Range: Block start: IN-5-298321507-2-2-0-430      Block end: IN-5-298370440-2-2-0-430
________________
